
OpenNetworkObjectSystem

My project is a python webserver system that will enable everybody to make internet of things in few minutes.
The idea is pretty simple , a webserver that will control an infinite number of web objects and that allow the user to view and modify the status of a web object (like turn on a light or view a temperature and turn off the heater).
The innovation is that for every web object the user can set all the parameters without modify the code just by editing a webform.
For each web object you can set the css style the html to display and the bash command to execute and this for every status of the object!
The webserver will change the page served to the browser following the status of the web object.
The pages will not have javascript to change the property of the web page , so it will be very fast and reliable. 
All the configuration will be saved in a xml file so if you copy this xml and send to a friend he or she will be able to have the same web interface you have.
The web server is based only on the basic python library so it will run everywhere there is python (any linux system for example).
No installation required! just copy the folder where you want.
I want to make possible to anybody to make its own domotic system so the webserver make possible to create new "rooms" and for each room it's possible to add and remove web objects,all  this by a simple web form.

The final project will make possible to control by  webpages a network of nRF24L01‎+ , where each modules is connected to an arduino pro mini that will act with the "real" world.

I hope to allow more people to play with the internet of things , i just ask you the possibility to make their way more simple.

Let me know what you think about it .
Thank for your time.
Best Regards
Marco Rigoni.





I will show how to use and how to run and configure the system on a raspberry pi and on a linux pc.
Then i will let the people to play around it , turning on and off things from their phone and adding web objects to the system.
I will also give them the software and all the information to use it.



open source , all the code is avaible for modification

simple to use  ,   no need to know any programming language ,only html if you want a nice interface

modular   , you can add your program easy , it run bash command! and also python programm

portable , only basic python library needed   , no need to install anything else---> every linux system will run it!

powerfull , you can controll every aspect of the server pc because you can run bash command

reliable   , every command is run before to update the web page so you know the command was executed if the pag tell you so






Internet of things make easy for everyone.
open source , simple to use  ,  no need to know any programming language ,only html if you want a nice interface , you can add your programs easy , it run bash command!every linux system will run it .



I live in Sarego,   i was born in 1989 in Vicenza.
I started when i was 13 years old when i saw the deagostini robot on the tv, i want to make custom one  so i studied electronic at the I.T.I.S
My interest are : electronic , informatic and robotics


a) My propose is a simple  web system that allow everyone to make internet of things objects by submitting a simple web form.
b)The benefits are that also people that is not able to code can make simple web objects that will be controlled by a webpage.
c)I don't think similar system is available to the people.
d)Let the artist and the common people to make web controlled things will be lead the technology to the next step like arduino did.









